# Covid-19 Case Choropleth Maps

In this [project](code.ipynb) I used Python to visualize three different choropleth maps of looking at the Covid-19 case data in New York State. All three maps use the New York state counties map as the base map. While we're going to create a few very nice maps, we'll also get a lot of Pandas practice along the way! The three different maps we'll create are:
1. The first map looks at the total number of positive cases in each county adjusted for population (incidence). The resulting choropleth map will show which counties were the hardest hit by Covid-19 from the start of the pandemic till the last data date. My version of this map (last data date = 02/14/2023) is in the file [map 1.html](map_results).

2. The second map constructs a time slider choropleth map using the same data as in problem 1 with the difference that the output is a map for each day between March 1st 2020 and the latest data date. To smooth out noise, rather than plotting the raw incidence for each day, we'll plot the 8 day moving average of the daily incidence (incidence = cases/population). My version of this map (last data date = 02/14/2023) is in the file [map 2.html](map_results).

3. If you slide through the map from Problem 2, you'll notice that there are large chunks of time where the entire map is almost yellow. This is because the choropleth map is using a range from the lowest 8 day moving average to the highest 8 day moving average to figure out how much a county should be shaded. An alternative way at looking at the data would be to construct daily choropleth maps that focused on the relative incidence of Covid-19 across counties on any given day. One way to do this is to rank the counties by the incidence levels for each day separately. In the third choropleth map, we'll construct a time slider choropleth map which uses the 8 day moving average of these daily ranks (highest to lowest). Public health officials will find this more useful than the problem 2 map because they can move resources (testing kits, hospital supplies, treatments, etc.) to the counties with a higher incidence even when overall cases are quire low. My version of this map (last data date = 02/14/2023) is in the file [map 3.html](map_results).
